[MUSIC]
>> Rachel Nabors: I hope you still
have your ball exercises open,
because now it's time for
a less taxing experiment.
I want you to experiment with different
kinds of easing and durations to
find the combination that feels right to
you, for how that ball should be rolling.
And when you're done, take a break.
We're going to have a moment for
everyone to go powder their noses etc.
When we get back, I will talk about the
coverage for browsers for CSS transitions.
It's time to experiment
with some of those easings.
All right.
So.
I asked everybody before
break to go out and play with
the kinds of easing that they can create
and pick one that feels the best of them.
So here's the transition timing function,
defaults to just ease.
We are gonna try linear.
>> Rachel Nabors: So boring.
Nothing moves that way.
Nothing ever moves that way.
Well we could try ease out or
slow out, goes out slowly.
This is the default,
comes with your browser.
Notice it starts fast and
then it slows down.
I guess that works all right.
Ease-in would look like it's
running up against the wall.
Wait, ease-is is not an actual easing,
here, ease-in.
Notice it accelerates and
then it stops abruptly.
That might look better, if we had stopping
right here against the edge of the screen,
then it would look like it
just slammed into a wall.
But that doesn't really show
the effect of inertia and
friction upon this ball
as it rolls across.
What probably is gonna happen is that
when the cat officially initially
pushes the ball.
It's gonna go a little fast.
It's gonna go a little fast as
it's got an input of energy and
then it's gonna slow down as that energy
is siphoned off by the universe at large
and our slow and inescapable
progress towards violent heat death.
But that's for another talk.
>> Speaker 2: I'm sorry.
>> Rachel Nabors: What?
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: That sure was fast.
>> Rachel Nabors: Sorry.
I go to these places fast,
such is my life.
So let's just pick one of these
where we're gonna, there we go,
easeinOutQuint, that looks right.
It's gonna go fast, then it slows down.
Or no, no maybe.
I like easeinOutSine.
It's gonna speed up a little bit from
the input and then it's gonna slow down.
So copy the cubic buzeic curve,
now I go back here, and
we all like here's the cubic bezier
curve I want and it looks all right.
It does not look terrible.
So a little note about
cubic bezier curves here.
I was just talking with
a student about this earlier.
So we were talking a little
bit about performance and
perceived speed of interfaces earlier.
So that's something you should
keep in mind when assigning
easings to different elements in
your designs and user interfaces.
Ask yourself, when you're picking
whether you should use something that is
accelerated or decelerated, whether or
not this is a human initiated response.
Is the human interacting with something?
Is this a response to a click or
a hover or their behavior on the site?
In which case, you probably want something
that's decelerating, that is to say
it starts quickly, it responds immediately
and quickly to whatever their input is.
Yes ma'am, I am clicking on the button,
the button has been pressed,
you are awesome, we love you.
However, if it's something that the system
is doing, say you're giving them one of
those wonderful windows we've all seen,
sign up to this site now and
you'll get 10% off coupons, something like
that, something they didn't ask to happen.
You probably want something
that is accelerating.
That is, it comes in slowly and then
speeds up to get off to its final state.
That way,
they will be less surprised by the motion.
It's going to start slowly and thus be
less abrupt and less disruptful to them.
So keep that in mind when you're
working on your interfaces.
People do respond differently and
perceive differently.
How quickly something is changing has
to be something they've impacted, or
something that is going to impact them.